# Fake-News-Detection

It is true that with great power comes great responsibility.The internet and social media hold immense power to spread information like a wildfire. But is the information spread always credible? Fake news i.e. a subject including news, data, report and information that is wholly or partly false, is one of the biggest scandals in the the digitally connected world. Its impact on the society is humungous. It creates a threat to national security, economy, prosperity and individual.Billions of articles created every day on the web, people might be spreading without knowing this news is real or fake. A simple action has become a serious issue if there is no control gate to prevent fake news stories being spread aggressively.Deep learning models are widely used for linguistic can detect complex patterns in textual data. Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) is a tree-structured recurrent neural network used modeling. Typical deep learning models such as Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) to analyze variable-length sequential data. Bi-directional LSTM allows looking at particular sequence both from front-to-back as can detect complex patterns in textual data. Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) is a tree-structured recurrent neural network used well as from back-to-front. The paper presents a fake news detection model based on Bi-directional LSTM-recurrent neural to analyze variable-length sequential data. Bi-directional LSTM allows looking at particular sequence both from front-to-back as network. Two publicly available unstructured news articles datasets are used to assess the performance of the model. The result well as from back-to-front. The paper presents a fake news detection model based on Bi-directional LSTM-recurrent neural shows the superiority in terms of accuracy of Bi-directional LSTM model over other methods namely CNN, vanilla RNN and network. The aim of this project is to apply natural language processing(NLP)techniques for text analytics and train a deep learning model to detect fake news based on news content or title.This model can be applied to real-world social media and can be used to eliminate bad experience for users.NLP techniques like regular expression, tokenisation are used before vectorising using Word2Vec library.
